Opposites
/ŏp′ə-zĭt/
Being the other of two complementary or mutually exclusive things.

Dichotomies, Booleans, Duality within thyself... I could go on but the idea is opposites are all around us, prevalent within our everyday lives.

Opposites in fact are a self validating system in which we draw the axioms of our reality:
- I am me, because I am not them, the boundary of self <= Man
- 0, and 1, the boundary of nothing <= Math
- Let there be light, and he separated the light from the darkness (Genesis 1:3-4), the boundary of creation <= World

The fact is opposites comprise our very reality, inherent to its underlying existence.
They are the basis that orientate the world. How interesting~!

In them we are able to derive truths, or rather the ruleset of our reality.
Of course they over simply the complex spectrum and utter cacophony we experience known as life, but that is very means to their beauty, their simplicity.
Opposites are but two extremes at the very ends of our scale, sacrificing context but not resolution. Your known peaks and valleys establish a range of probability in which you can fill.

I have, or haven't, It is or it isn't, I will or I won't.

We comprise opposites, often traversing between both ends, within us there is a natural urge to encompass them.
Picture yourself on a beach, on the sand we miss the water, in the water we miss the sand. 
The conundrum many face is they can't be happy living on one side. That is the natural balance our condition seeks.

Within the human is comprised the whole, the ultimate cause of everything.
You get to choose between, black and white, good and evil, creation that brings beauty or destruction that is merciless.
Your soul emits constant opposites and it is you who must balance them to find your freedom.

Notice earlier I mentioned your **known** peaks and valleys establish your range of possibility, latent in you is the ability to expand, to grow, to transcend, to be on all extremes at any time, but to what upper limit?
I'd argue to none~ the ability to imagine what has been and what has not is a gift from god, do not mistake my use of the term god to be in any religious sense but rather a placeholder for the explanation of our ability to realize and actualize.
Opposites are but a pattern recognition, a window into the natural patterns that are our reality, by finding them and using them we broaden our understanding of our global and shared condition that is US, ME, YOU, I, EVERYTHING.

The biggest shortcoming I see people make is failing to realize opposite are actually talking about the same thing. This is because primarily draw from our conscious experience.
With one defined point we can draw a dot which lives within the 0th dimension, with two defined points we can draw a line living within the 1st dimension.
Opposites are but a comment on the boundaries we define on the patterns we observe. They are two extremes on a linear scale which in and of itself vibrates at varying frequencies, talking about the same thing, but they are not.
How profound is the notion of ideas that are commenting on the same and differing ideas simultaneously.














